---
title: istio overview
subtitle: 记录一下istio功能介绍
layout: post
tags: [istio]
---



## 流量管理



### 简介

为指挥Mesh里的流量，`istio`需要知道所有的`endpoints`，以及这些`endpoints`所属的`services`。

为了推广它自己的service registry，istio连接了一个service discovery system。比如说，你在一个kubernetes集群上面安装了Istio，Istio会自动的探测到集群里面的services和endpoints。

> Istio maintains an internal **service registry** containing the set of [services](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#service), and their corresponding [service endpoints](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#service-endpoint), running in a service mesh. Istio uses the service registry to generate [Envoy](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#envoy) configuration.
>
> Istio does not provide [service discovery](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Service_discovery), although most services are automatically added to the registry by [Pilot](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#pilot) adapters that reflect the discovered services of the underlying platform (Kubernetes, Consul, plain DNS). Additional services can also be registered manually using a [`ServiceEntry`](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#service-entries) configuration.

Using this service registry, the Envoy proxies can then direct traffic to the relevant services. Most microservice-based applications **have multiple instances of each service workload** to handle service traffic, **sometimes referred to as a load balancing pool**. By default, the Envoy proxies distribute traffic across each service’s load balancing pool using a round-robin model, where requests are sent to each pool member in turn, returning to the top of the pool once each service instance has received a request.

**While Istio’s basic service discovery and load balancing gives you a working service mesh, it’s far from all that Istio can do**. In many cases you might want more fine-grained control over what happens to your mesh traffic. 

You might want to direct a particular percentage of traffic to a new version of a service as part of A/B testing, or apply a different load balancing policy to traffic for a particular subset of service instances. 

You might also want to apply special rules to traffic coming into or out of your mesh, or add an external dependency of your mesh to the service registry. You can do all this and more by adding your own traffic configuration to Istio using Istio’s traffic management API.

Like other Istio configuration, the API is specified using Kubernetes custom resource definitions (CRDs), which you can configure using YAML, as you’ll see in the examples.

The rest of this guide examines each of the traffic management API resources and what you can do with them. These resources are:

- [Virtual services](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#virtual-services)
- [Destination rules](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#destination-rules)
- [Gateways](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#gateways)
- [Service entries](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#service-entries)
- [Sidecars](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#sidecars)

This guide also gives an overview of some of the [network resilience and testing features](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#network-resilience-and-testing) that are built in to the API resources.

### Virtual Services（虚拟服务—router—>具体的endpoint）

[Virtual services](https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/networking/virtual-service/#VirtualService), along with [destination rules](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#destination-rules), are the key building blocks of Istio’s traffic routing functionality. 

**A virtual service lets you configure how requests are routed to a service within an Istio service mesh, building on the basic connectivity and discovery provided by Istio and your platform.** 

Each virtual service **consists of a set of routing rules** that are evaluated in order, letting Istio match each given request to the virtual service to a specific real destination within the mesh. Your mesh can require multiple virtual services or none depending on your use case.

#### Why use virtual services？

Virtual services play a key role in making Istio’s traffic management flexible and powerful. They do this by strongly **decoupling where clients send their requests from the destination workloads that actually implement them**. Virtual services also provide a rich way of specifying different traffic routing rules for sending traffic to those workloads.

Why is this so useful? 

Without virtual services, Envoy distributes traffic using round-robin load balancing between all service instances, as described in the introduction. You can improve this behavior with what you know about the workloads.

 For example, some might represent a different version. This can be useful in A/B testing, where you might want to configure traffic routes based on percentages across different service versions, or to direct traffic from your internal users to a particular set of instances.

**With a virtual service, you can specify traffic behavior for one or more hostnames.** You use routing rules in the virtual service that tell Envoy how to send the virtual service’s traffic to appropriate destinations. Route destinations can be versions of the same service or entirely different services.

A typical use case is to send traffic to different versions of a service, specified as service subsets. Clients send requests to the virtual service host as if it was a single entity, and Envoy then routes the traffic to the different versions depending on the virtual service rules: for example, “20% of calls go to the new version” or “calls from these users go to version 2”. This allows you to, for instance, create a canary rollout where you gradually increase the percentage of traffic that’s sent to a new service version. The traffic routing is completely separate from the instance deployment, meaning that the number of instances implementing the new service version can scale up and down based on traffic load without referring to traffic routing at all. By contrast, container orchestration platforms like Kubernetes only support traffic distribution based on instance scaling, which quickly becomes complex. You can read more about how virtual services help with canary deployments in [Canary Deployments using Istio](https://istio.io/blog/2017/0.1-canary/).

Virtual services also let you:

- **Address multiple application services through a single virtual service**. If your mesh uses Kubernetes, for example, you can configure a virtual service to handle all services in a specific namespace. Mapping a single virtual service to multiple “real” services is particularly useful in facilitating turning a monolithic application into a composite service built out of distinct microservices without requiring the consumers of the service to adapt to the transition. Your routing rules can specify “calls to these URIs of `monolith.com` go to `microservice A`”, and so on. You can see how this works in [one of our examples below](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#more-about-routing-rules).
- **Configure traffic rules** in combination with [gateways](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#gateways) to control ingress and egress traffic.

In some cases you also need to configure destination rules to use these features, as these are where you specify your service subsets. Specifying service subsets and other destination-specific policies in a separate object lets you reuse these cleanly between virtual services. You can find out more about destination rules in the next section.

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: reviews
spec:
  hosts:
  - reviews
  http:
  - match:
    - headers:
        end-user:
          exact: jason
    route:
    - destination:
        host: reviews
        subset: v2
  - route:
    - destination:
        host: reviews
        subset: v3

```

The `hosts` field lists the virtual service’s hosts - in other words, the user-addressable destination or destinations that these routing rules apply to. This is the address or addresses the client uses when sending requests to the service.

```yaml
hosts:
- reviews
```

**The virtual service hostname can be an IP address, a DNS name, or, depending on the platform, a short name (such as a Kubernetes service short name) that resolves, implicitly or explicitly, to a fully qualified domain name (FQDN).** 

You can also use wildcard (”*”) prefixes, letting you create a single set of routing rules for all matching services. Virtual service hosts don’t actually have to be part of the Istio service registry, they are simply virtual destinations. This lets you model traffic for virtual hosts that don’t have routable entries inside the mesh.

#### Routing rules

The `http` section contains the virtual service’s routing rules, describing match conditions and actions for routing HTTP/1.1, HTTP2, and gRPC traffic sent to the destination(s) specified in the hosts field (you can also use `tcp` and `tls` sections to configure routing rules for [TCP](https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/networking/virtual-service/#TCPRoute) and unterminated [TLS](https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/networking/virtual-service/#TLSRoute) traffic). A routing rule consists of the destination where you want the traffic to go and zero or more match conditions, depending on your use case.

##### Match condition

The first routing rule in the example has a condition and so begins with the `match` field. In this case you want this routing to apply to all requests from the user “jason”, so you use the `headers`, `end-user`, and `exact` fields to select the appropriate requests.

```yaml
- match:
   - headers:
       end-user:
         exact: jason
```

##### Destination

The route section’s `destination` field specifies the actual destination for traffic that matches this condition. Unlike the virtual service’s host(s), the destination’s host must be a real destination that exists in Istio’s service registry or Envoy won’t know where to send traffic to it. This can be a mesh service with proxies or a non-mesh service added using a service entry. In this case we’re running on Kubernetes and the host name is a Kubernetes service name:

```yaml
route:
- destination:
    host: reviews
    subset: v2
```

Note in this and the other examples on this page, we use a Kubernetes short name for the destination hosts for simplicity. When this rule is evaluated, Istio adds a domain suffix based on the namespace of the virtual service that contains the routing rule to get the fully qualified name for the host. Using short names in our examples also means that you can copy and try them in any namespace you like.

Using short names like this only works if the destination hosts and the virtual service are actually in the same Kubernetes namespace. Because using the Kubernetes short name can result in misconfigurations, we recommend that you specify fully qualified host names in production environments.

The destination section also specifies which subset of this Kubernetes service you want requests that match this rule’s conditions to go to, in this case the subset named v2. You’ll see how you define a service subset in the section on [destination rules](https://istio.io/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#destination-rules) below.

#### Routing rule precedence

Routing rules are **evaluated in sequential order from top to bottom**, with the first rule in the virtual service definition being given highest priority. In this case you want anything that doesn’t match the first routing rule to go to a default destination, specified in the second rule. Because of this, the second rule has no match conditions and just directs traffic to the v3 subset.

```yaml
- route:
  - destination:
      host: reviews
      subset: v3
```

We recommend providing a default “no condition” or weight-based rule (described below) like this as the last rule in each virtual service to ensure that traffic to the virtual service always has at least one matching route.